**1. Conditional / Selection / Branching Statements:**
- The purpose of conditional statements is that "To perform either x-operation in the case of True or y-operation in the case of False only once".
- We have 4 types of conditional statements in python. They are
     - Simple if statement
     - if...else statement
     - if...elif...else statement
     - match...case statement (Python 3.10)

**1. Simple if Statement:**
- _Syntax:_
<pre>if (test condition):
    statement-1
    statement-2
    statement-n
Other statements in program</pre>
- Note:Here : is called "Indentation Symbol" and statement-1, statement-2...statement-n are called "Indentation Block of Statements".

- _Explanation:_ 
1. If the test condition result is True then PVM executes block of statements and also other statements in program.
2. If the test condition is False then PVm executes other statements in program only.

**2. if...else Statement:**
- _Syntax:_
<pre>
if (test condition):
    statement-1
    statement-2
    statement-n
else:
   statement-11
   statement-12
   statement-nn
Other Statements in program</pre>
- Note: Here statement-1, statement-2...statement-n are called as "Block of Statements-I and statement-11, statement-12...statement-nn
are called "Block of Statements-II

- _Explanation:_
1. If test condition is True then PVM executes block of statements-I ad also executes other statements in program (without executing block of statements-II).
2. If the test condition is False then PVM executes block of statements-II and also executes other statements in program (without executing block of statements-I).

**3. if...elif...else Statement:**
- _Syntax:_ 
<pre>
if (test condition-1):
    Block of Statements-I
elif (test condition-2):
    Block of Statements-II
elif (test conditino-3):
    Block of Statements-III
.
.
elif (test condition-n):
    Block of Statements-N
else:
    else Block of Statements.
Other Statements in Program</pre>
- _Explanation:_
1. If test condition-1 is True then PVM executes Block of Statements-I and other statements in program.
2. If the test condition-1 is False and if test conditino-2 is True then PVM executes Block of Statements-II and other statements in program.
3. This process repeated until all test conditions evaluated and when all the test condition are False then PVM executes else Block of Statements and Other statements in program.
4. Writing else block is optional.</pre>

**4. match...case Statement:**
- It is one of new feature in Python 3.10
- This feature is also known as Multi way decision making statement.
- _Syntax:_
<pre>
match expression:
  case label 1:
      Block of Statements-I
   case label 2:
      Block of Statements-II
   .
   .
   case label n:
      Block of Statements-N
   case _: #default Block
      default Block of Statements
Other Statements in program.</pre>

- _Explanation:_ 
1. Here 'match' and 'case' are the keywords.
2. 'expression' is any data type value except float.
3. The value of expression comparing with case label-1.
   If it is True then PVM execute Block of Statement-I and also executes
   other statements in program.
   If Value of expression is not matching with case label-1 then it compares with
   case label-2 and if it matches then PVM executes Block of Statements-II and 
   also execute other statements in program and so on.
4. In general, if the value of expression is match with any case label then 
   PVM executes corresponding Block of Statements and also executes Other Statements.
5. If Value of expression is not matching with any case labels then PVM executes 
   Block of Statements written under default case block and also executes Other statements.
6. Writing default case block is optional.
