**1. Break Statement:**
- 'break' is a keyword.
- The pyrpose of break statement is that "To terminate the execution of loop logically when certain condition is sstisfiesd and PVM control comes out of corresponding loop and executes Other statements in the program.
- _Syntax-1:_
<pre>
for var in Iterable_Object:
    ----------------
    if (test condition):
        break
    ------------
    ------------</pre>
    
- _Syntax-2:_
<pre>
while (test condition):
    ----------
    if (test condition):
        break
    -------------
    -------------</pre>

**2. continue Statement:**
- 'continue' is a keyword.
- continue statement is used for making the PVM to go to the top of the loop without executing the following statements which are written after continue statement for that current Iteration only.
- continue statement to be used always inside of loops.
- When we use continue statement else part of the corresponding loop also executes provided loop condition between Flase.
- _Syntax:_
<pre>
for varname in Iterable_object:
    if (test condition)
        continue
    statement-1   #Written after continue Statement
    statement-2
    .
    .
    statement-n
Other Statements in program</pre>

**3. pass:**
- 'pass' is a keyword.
- It is used as a placeholder.
- which makes the python compiler and PVM to bypass the Indentation symbol.
- Whenever you start / write Indentation symbol it is compulsory to write Indentation block, But sometime we may not interest to write Indentation block that time to avoid "IndentationError" we use / write 'pass' keyword.
- In otherwords, To avoid "IndentationError" we use 'pass' keyword.
- When pass statement executed nothing happens, but avoid getting an erroe.
- Example:
<pre>
n=int(input("Enter a Number : "))
if (n>8):
    pass
else:
    print("{} is Bigger than 10".format(n))
