**5) Bitwise Operators:**
- These operators are internally converting Decimal Number System data into Binary Number System Data and Operators on  Binary Data in the form of Bit by Bit.
- Bitwise operator works on Integer Data only but not float type data (Because float is providing infinite number decimal places).
- We have six Bitwise Operators. They are
    1. Bitwise Left Shift Operator(<<)
    2. Bitwise Right Shift operator(>>)
    3. Bitwise OR Operator(|)
    4. Bitwise AND operator(&)
    5. Bitwise Complement Operator(~)
    6. Bitwise XOR Operator(^)

**1.Bitwise Left Shift Operator(<<):**
- Syntax : varname = GivenIntegerData << No. of Bits
- This operator shifts the "No. of Bits" towards left side by adding No. of Zeros at right side(must be equal to Bits shifted towards Left).
- Formula : res=GivenData << No. of Bits ---> GivenData * 2^No. of Bits.

**2.Bitwise Right Shift Operator(>>):**
- Syntax : varname=GivenIntegerData >> No. of Bits
- This operator shift the "No. of Bits" towards Right side by adding No. of Zeros at Left Side(must be equal No. of Bits Shifted toward Right).
- Formula : res=GivenData>>No. of Bits ---> GivenData / No. of Bits.

**3.Bitwise OR Operator:**
- The functionality of Bitwise OR Operator(|) is shown in the following Truth table : 
     |varname-1|varname-2|(varname-1 \| varname-2) |
     |---------|---------|-----------------------|
     |0|0|0|
     |1|0|1|
     |0|1|1|
     |1|1|1|
     
**4.Bitwise AND Operator(&):**
- The functionality of Bitwise AND Operator (&) is shown in the following Truth table :
    |varname-1|varname-2|(varname-1 & varname-2) |
     |---------|---------|-----------------------|
     |0|0|0|
     |1|0|0|
     |0|1|0|
     |1|1|1|
     
**5.Bitwise Complement Operator(~):**
- The functionlity of Bitwise complement Operator is that "Binary former format of Given Number-1.
- In otherwords ~n=-(n+1)

**6.Bitwise XOR Operator(^):**
- The functionality of Bitwise XOR Operator (^) is shown in the following Truth table :
- |varname-1|varname-2|(varname-1  varname-2) |
     |---------|---------|-----------------------|
     |0|0|0|
     |1|0|1|
     |0|1|1|
     |1|1|0|
